AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAustralia Fare8 PhotosView Slide Show ›David Maurice Smith for The New York TimesBy Besha RodellCANTERBURY, New South Wales — Sydney, it seems, has re-embraced fusion. From Japanese-Italian degustation menus to pop-ups serving vegan Mexican-Japanese food paired with natural wines, the city has accepted its role as a culinary rule-breaker and run with it, into sometimes dubious territory. But there are upsides to this madness.One of those is Pazar Food Collective, a neighborhood restaurant in the South-western suburb of Canterbury, which serves food inspired by both Turkey and Mexico. Pazar not only manages to fit comfortably into the canon of New Australian restaurants, but also gives a glimmer of forward momentum in that genre.The restaurant is on a stretch of Canterbury Road that is home to drab office buildings and car dealerships and a smattering of chain restaurants. From a few paces away, the storefront space looks nondescript, so much so that the vibrancy of the room is somewhat breathtaking as you enter.Inside, people sit in boisterous groups at high tables. At the back of the restaurant, an open kitchen showcases a large, domed wood-burning stove, and the bar looks like a street cart with a colorful awning strung with lights. A striking wall-size black-and-white photo (by the photographer Jason Thomas Fritz) depicting a young girl at a Day of the Virgin of Guadalupe festival in Tijuana, Mexico, dominates the dining room. On busier nights, the sprawling patio out back opens, resembling a festive, twinkling garden party.Pazar is the amalgamation of the owner Attila Yilmaz’s culinary experiences. Raised by his Turkish father, Mr. Yilmaz left a career in law enforcement in 2011 after being diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder. He decided to fulfill a longstanding desire to learn more about Mexico’s food, traveling to Los Angeles and Sonora, Mexico.When he returned to Sydney, Mr. Yilmaz opened a food truck serving Sonoran-style charcoal-grilled meats, and flour tortillas made in the traditional way with lard. In a city and country with a dearth of quality Mexican cooking, the regionally specific food Mr. Yilmaz cooked was a revelation to many. The following year, the space he used in Canterbury as a garage and prep area slowly morphed into a pop-up restaurant called La Lupita.The concept was a hit — the neighborhood loved it, the city discovered it and soon people were making the trip to Canterbury to try it. It was so popular that Mr. Yilmaz received a partnership offer from a local businessman to move the restaurant to a central Sydney location. La Lupita relocated to Circular Quay, but the business relationship did not last. Mr. Yilmaz severed ties and returned to Canterbury, where Pazar Food Collective was born in the same space that La Lupita had first found its audience.When Pazar opened, Mr. Yilmaz decided to bring his Turkish heritage into the mix. He installed a wood-burning oven specifically to cook the lamb forequarter that became the restaurant’s signature dish: a heaping pile of smoky, juicy lamb meat served with tomato and herb ezme, and a pilaf made from bulgur. At $38, it is the most expensive item on the menu, and could feed a table of four.Dishes tend to lean in one direction or another — Turkish or Mexican — rather than blend the two cuisines aggressively. Chicken is rubbed in harissa, roasted and served with tahini yogurt, while roast pork belly, its skin crisped to a chicharrón, is accompanied by chipotle salsa and a pineapple quinoa salad. There are crossovers, but they are mainly in the form of swapping Mexican elements out for similar Middle Eastern ingredients, or vice versa. Pazar’s ode to elote — a bowl of shucked sweet corn shot through with lime — replaces the traditional cojita cheese with shaved manchego, and some of the dish’s creaminess comes from labneh. These are flavors so adjacent they barely count as cross-cultural. There are no kofte tacos, in other words.There is, however, kofte made from red lentils rather than meat, and described on the menu as “köfte ssäm.” Talk about your multicultural umlauts. The Korean word ssam here is employed to describe the method of consumption rather than any Korean flavor elements. The spicy lentil kofte, which has a weight and consistency remarkably close to its meaty counterpart, is served with lettuce leaves for wrapping, as well as pickles, herbs and chiles.At times the food becomes truly borderless. Japanese eggplants are cooked to a glorious, creamy mush under a blanket of roasted red pepper sauce, topped with garlic yogurt. The dish undoubtedly takes much of its DNA from the classic Turkish eggplant preparation imam bayildi, but it also shares kinship with Italian eggplant, and its unabashed sauciness even hints at ratatouille.In recent weeks, Mr. Yilmaz has landed at the center of a social media storm. On Facebook, he pointed out that a new Sydney restaurant, the Park House Food & Liquor, has a concept and food that are similar to Pazar’s. Mr. Yilmaz was originally slated to be part of the Park House project, but he backed out when he felt the extra pressure would be bad for his health. Intellectual property rights do not apply to cuisine, but it does say something about Sydney’s appetites that there is room for two establishments serving Mexican-Middle Eastern food.Until this year, Mr. Yilmaz was fond of saying that no trained chefs cooked in Pazar’s kitchen. But he now employs a head chef — Alex Martin, who formerly worked at Continental Deli Bar and Bistro — with whom he collaborates on the menu. It’s a treat to sit at the kitchen counter, where you can watch Ms. Martin and her crew working that roaring oven, tossing logs in to regulate its heat and plating coils of perfectly charred octopus over a peanut and chile de arbol salsa.If the food at Pazar has a connective thread, it is a dedication to brightness and balance, a penchant for ramping up flavors. It is fusion, in every sense of the word, but it tastes big and bold and global and delicious. Much like Sydney itself.Do you have a suggestion for Besha Rodell? The New York Times’s Australia bureau would love to hear from you: nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join the discussion in the NYT Australia Facebook group. Read about the Australia Fare column here.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.This information was last updated on Feb. 6, 2018AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS