AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHungry City11 PhotosView Slide Show ›An Rong Xu for The New York TimesBy Ligaya MishanTwo Dungeness crabs face off on the plate, ready to duel. One is battered gold, deep-fried and propped on a rubble of garlic shards; the other has been steamed to a dying-sunset hue and shimmers from a frisk in the wok with ginger, scallions and Shaoxing wine. Only a border of half-moon cucumbers separates them, keeping the peace.This is dinner at Wu’s Wonton King, which opened last year where the eastern edge of Chinatown meets the Lower East Side. To passers-by, it may look like just another Cantonese restaurant, with whole ducks and suckling pigs gleaming from hooks in the window and eels necking in a tank. Sometimes, walking through Chinatown, I feel as if there’s no end to it, the sense of possibility behind every door. How to choose? How to know?A clue here is the people in line for meat at the carving station up front. In the modern, unfussy dining room at the back, nearly every table has a platter of barbecue: glossy ribs whose flesh is swiftly liberated from the bone; duck bathed in spices and hung to dry so that when it’s roasted, the skin turns brittle, translucent and shining, setting off a staccato of pops as it cracks between the teeth.For the lucky ones who call ahead, there is whole suckling pig, wheeled tableside, looking as if it were dipped in bronze. (A waiter told me that another, better-known restaurant in Chinatown buys its suckling pigs from Wu’s and passes them off as its own.)From the fish tanks come the Dungeness crabs and whorls of eel, the flesh fluffy and preening from the heat of the wok. The eel has been tossed with fermented black soybeans — for salt and an anchoring, earthy bitterness — and chenpi (dried tangerine peel), a citrus high note at the juncture where bitter shades into sweet.Some of the loveliest dishes are the simplest, like glassine strands of jellyfish, coolly refreshing, with proper crunch and only a hint of chewiness, and a gorgeous mess of creamy scrambled eggs larded with baby shrimp. Snow-pea sprouts, grassy and bright, gain texture and funk from three kinds of eggs: rags of white, broken and set at the last minute; meaty nubs of orange yolk from salted eggs; and black yolks and jellied whites from so-called 1,000-year-old eggs preserved in lye, sulfurous and almost gamy.The menu here, as elsewhere in the neighborhood, is at once encyclopedic in breadth and minimalist in detail — not particularly helpful, even for the Chinese speakers at my table. Poster-size photographs of dishes hang on the walls, and may guide you to chicken bristling with crispy garlic and shallots, or dried squid in a thatch of chives, with deep-fried silver anchovies showing off frilly little tails that crumble on the tongue.And what of these won tons of which Wu’s is king, as the venture capitalist on the HBO comedy “Silicon Valley” might put it? The best way to experience them is in a broth clouded with fat leached from long-simmered pork bones, headier than other soups in the neighborhood but still clean on the tongue. The skins are delicate but wait to break until pierced, and reveal meat seething and tender.Derek Wu, a native of Guangdong Province in southern China, runs the restaurant with three chefs, one in charge of daytime dim sum, another barbecue, another the rest of the menu. (An older chef, with six decades of experience in Hong Kong, recently retired, but still stops by to check on the kitchen.)Derek suavely handles the floor and the restaurant’s Instagram account, which includes shots of guests like the chefs David Chang and Mario Batali and the occasional menacing Alaskan king crab, with the caption “he said: come on buddy.”Wu’s is an old-school counterpoint to the cheeky, eclectically minded Mission Chinese Food a few doors down. But the storefront’s history goes further back, to its decades-long incarnation as the Garden Cafeteria, a second home for the writer Isaac Bashevis Singer, who ate “mountains” of its rice pudding.A spirit of plenty still prevails here. One night, for dessert, we were given mango jelly in which the taste of mango was close to perfume, and pumpkin soup so thick it was practically jelly itself. Moments after both were delivered, Mr. Wu returned and surveyed our already emptied bowls. He asked, “Would you like more?”Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.This information was last updated on Nov. 1, 2017Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS