AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOff the MenuBy Florence FabricantBLEECKER STREET LUNCHEONETTE Here’s an exceptional restaurant story at a time when rent increases keep turning dining rooms into empty storefronts. One such victim was Risotteria in the West Village, which Joseph Pace, an experienced chef with French training, opened in 1999 and closed two years ago. He and his wife, Adrienne Pace, left New York to travel and returned to find the city welcoming a spicier, more global, vegetable-based cuisine and Mr. Pace’s former landlord “ready to deal,” as he put it. So he is now back in his old space, and has opened this all-day restaurant serving breakfast items like a poached egg lentil bowl and eggs baked with the green Yemeni hot sauce called zhug. Hefty sandwiches on bread that’s gluten-free or not, salads and main courses (served after noon) that include skirt steak, mac and cheese and leg of lamb with kofta seasonings, round out a menu that unites comfort food and Middle Eastern seasoning. The drinks list (beer and wine only) is modest in length and price. Mr. Pace’s take on the “all day” restaurant is simply done, with bare tables and wood floors: 270 Bleecker Street (Morton Street), 917-261-6479, bleeckerluncheonette.com. BELLWETHER Seasonal and new American — the prevailing restaurant buzzwords — are in play at this new spot, but its location offers an uncommon feature, a sweeping view of the Empire State Building across the East River. The owners, the chef Preston Madson, who worked with Jonathan Waxman at Barbuto and the new Jams, and Matthew McCormick, who lives in the neighborhood, have created an airy space with whitewashed brick and a driftwood sculpture: 47-25 Vernon Boulevard (47th Road), Long Island City, Queens, 718-392-3257, bellwethernyc.com. THE WOODSTOCK Steps from the High Line entrance, this new, 120-seat place is more about drinks than food. It features top-shelf spirits in classic cocktails priced at $10. The owner, James Morrissey of the VNYL, has brought in Nino Coniglio of Williamsburg Pizza to handle the food. The landlords, David and Joseph Sitt of Thor Equities, are also partners, and they are curating works by Salvador Dalí for the space. (Opens Wednesday): 446 West 14th Street, 212-633-2000, thewoodstocknyc.com. DECIMO RISTOBAR Alana Taylor, a fledgling restaurateur, serves salads, small plates like fried calamari, pastas and more substantial dishes, including lamb shanks and chicken paillard. The wine list tilts decidedly toward reds: 764 10th Avenue (52nd Street), 212-586-0888, decimonyc.com. GRÜNHAUS This spinoff of the vast Spritzenhaus in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, serves 40 beers in cans, bottles and on draft, with an array of sausages and dipping sauces. Weather permitting, the space’s garage doors will go up, and the interior with communal tables will become a beer garden: 101 Rivington Street (Ludlow Street), 212-228-0027, grunhausnyc.com. YOON HAEUNDAE GALBI Bobby Yoon, among the third generation of the family that opened Haeundae Galbi, a barbecue restaurant in Busan, South Korea, in 1964, has brought the business to New York. The menu offers short ribs, sirloin, bibimbap, a pancake for the table and braised pork ribs. It’s sleekly decorated in wood and stone, with state-of-the-art burners on the tables: 8 West 36th Street, yoon-nyc.com.MOMOFUKU KO About two months ago, David Chang’s flagship in the East Village closed for renovation. It has reopened, having expanded into a storefront next door, which is now the restaurant’s entrance and bar. There are 23 seats, eight facing an open kitchen, a design recalling the original Ko on First Avenue at 10th Street. An à la carte bar menu will change daily and offer dishes being developed for the main restaurant’s tasting dinners. Sean Gray is the executive chef. Spot prawn crudo, lobster cake, duck pie and mandarin tarte Tatin were on the menu last week: 8 Extra Place (First Street), 212-203-8095, ko.momofuku.com. BLANK SLATE TEA This teahouse specializing in tea drinks and food like a matcha yogurt bowl, as well as items like avocado toast, will open a few doors from Blank Slate Coffee & Kitchen. (Friday): 121 Madison Avenue (31st Street), 646-707-0256, blankslatenyc.com. BUVETTE Jody Williams, who has a branch of her cozy West Village French bistro in Paris, has now opened an offshoot near Ginza in central Tokyo: 1-1-2 Yurakucho chiyoda-ku, Midtown Tokyo Hibiya, ilovebuvette.com. TACOCINA Come summer, Danny Meyer’s company will open this kiosk serving tacos in the park in the former Domino Sugar Factory project on the East River waterfront: Domino Park, River Street (South Second Street), Williamsburg, Brooklyn. TIME OUT MARKET NEW YORK The 50-year-old company based in London, which owns the global magazine Time Out and opened a 75,000-square-foot food hall in Lisbon, is planning a market in the Empire Stores complex in Dumbo, Brooklyn. It will occupy 11,000 square feet on the ground floor, where there will be 16 dining choices, plus two bars. On the fifth floor, there will be four more restaurants and a bar. João Cepeda, the president, and Didier Souillat, the chief executive of Time Out Market, have not selected the tenants, but they emphasized that street food would not be featured. They are looking for significant chefs; there will be burgers and a New York-style deli. Seating will be at counters and communal tables, and food will be served on china, glass and metal, not disposable plates and cutlery. Soon after this is up and running, they will open a Time Out Market in Miami Beach, with Boston and Chicago on the horizon: 55 Water Street (Main Street), Dumbo, Brooklyn. DENISSE LINA CHAVEZ, the talented Mexican chef with whom Noah Arenstein opened El Atoradero in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, has left once again. Last year, she went on leave because of health concerns, which evidently have recurred.RESY PRESENTS THE FRANKS’ BACKYARD CHEF SERIES II After a successful run last year, Resy.com will again be a partner in this series, in which Frank Castronovo and Frank Falcinelli, the owners of Frankies Spuntino, invite chefs to cook dinners held in the garden of their location at 457 Court Street (Luquer Street) in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn. The monthly dinners, held rain or shine at communal tables, start at 7 p.m. with cocktails; first up, on April 18, are David Chang, and Pedro Miguel Schiaffino from Lima, Peru. The other chefs include Inaki Aizpitarte from Paris, Sean Brock from Charleston, S.C., and Roy Choi from Los Angeles. Tickets, $150 including beverages, tax and tip, will go on sale at 9 a.m. Eastern time on Friday at Resy.com/Frankies. This year, a package of 10 dinners will be sold for $1,500. The organizers say that last year the dinners sold out in a matter of minutes.WILMA JEAN Rob Newton’s fried chicken restaurant in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, has closed. Mr. Newton still owns Nightingale Nine nearby and remains involved with Yellow Magnolia Café, at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS