AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOff the MenuBy Florence FabricantTHE LOBSTER CLUB With the Grill and the Pool up and running, the third restaurant for the Major Food Group in the Seagram Building, the Lobster Club, is poised to open. Any connection between this new restaurant and the space’s former tenant, Brasserie, is tenuous. Jeff Zalaznick, a co-owner, is instead calling it a Japanese brasserie. “I love the name, and it reminds me of places in Japan with similar names,” he said. The Lobster Club might suggest Japan to Mr. Zalaznick, but New Yorkers are more likely to remember an Upper East Side restaurant of that name from the chef Anne Rosenzweig. Now Japan prevails, with the chef, Tasuku Murakami, in the kitchen. There is lobster to be sure, seared on a teppan griddle, in a cocktail, a salad, and dumplings. But the menu is as much steakhouse as it is brasserie, with a long list of sushi and sashimi items as well. The restaurant, which cost $10 million to design and build and was done by the designer Peter Marino, who also created the colorful tableware, is as much inviting lounge as it is restaurant. Framed by a long, bright bar along one side with flooring that suggests Jackson Pollock’s work, some of the midcentury Modern style furnishings upholstered in pink and chartreuse are low, conducive to drinking and snacking. Off to one side is another dining room, which can be closed for private parties, done in vibrant red and adorned with Mr. Marino’s interpretations of Picasso sculptures. (Opens Friday): 98 East 53rd Street, 212-375-9001, thelobsterclub.com.GREENWICH GRILLE Harold Moore, who is the chef and a partner in Harold’s Meat & Three in Hudson Square, has opened another restaurant, this time in the West Village. His affinity for serving comfort food is showcased here, as it was at the now-defunct Commerce, where he was the chef and a partner for many years. Start with deviled eggs, move on to a kale salad, then dig into chicken potpie, beef stroganoff, rotisserie chicken, short-rib chili or a côte de boeuf for two, all the while struggling to save room for his towering coconut cake. Bryce Sorem, who worked with Mr. Moore at Commerce, will be in the kitchen day-to-day: 33 Greenwich Avenue (10th Street), 646-609-3615.CHARC After nearly a year, Danny Brown, the chef and restaurateur who received a Michelin star for his former restaurant in Queens, has decided to turn his tiny Upper East Side spot, X Bar Bistro, into a wine bar serving plates of charcuterie, cheese and sandwiches, including his take on a French dip with soup onions. (Wednesday): 316 East 84th Street, 646-719-1398, charcnyc.com.EVELINA The Italian side of the Mediterranean is what’s on offer from the chef, Lanfranco Paliotti, at this intimate new place, finished with rustic wood paneling and mosaic tiles. It’s named for a grandmother of Riccardo Buitoni, a partner in Aurora Restaurant Group, the owner. Fluke crudo, pastas like ricotta gnudi and garganelli with heritage pork sauce, and black sea bass and bavette steak from a wood-fired grill are featured: 211 DeKalb Avenue (Adelphi Street), Fort Greene, Brooklyn, evelinabk.com.SPRING & VARICK Occupying space in the Trump SoHo, but under separate management and with its own entrance, this restaurant, serving breakfast, lunch and dinner, has the chef John Creger, who worked with Bobby Flay and Brad Farmerie, in the kitchen. His menu is a varied lineup of American dishes like beet ravioli, a burger, sea scallops with parsnip purée, and a pork chop. Final indulgences include s’mores, and, on the breakfast menu, there’s lobster hash. Works by local artists are on the walls, and there’s a chef’s table for tastings. (Wednesday): Trump SoHo Hotel, 246 Spring Street (Varick Street), 212-842-4500, springandvarick.com.BAR GONZO If the ‘70s don’t feel like ancient history, you’ll be right at home at this two-story restaurant, bar and lounge that takes its inspiration from that era. Named for the journalism style created by the writer Hunter S. Thompson, it has vibrant nightclub décor, and a French-bread pizza like the supermarket staple that was popular at the time. The dining room and a bar are on the ground floor. Upstairs, there is a raw bar, charcuterie station and an all-weather veranda with cabanas and a tiki bar. (Thursday): Cassa Times Square Hotel, 515 Ninth Avenue (39th Street), 212-920-2020, cassatimessquare.com.HEY HEY CANTEEN AT GOTHAM MARKET This branch of the Park Slope Asian restaurant, the successor to 2 Duck Goose, is the latest addition to the Fort Greene, Brooklyn, food hall. It features noodles, dumplings and vegetable dishes, served from a counter. Some specialties include a choice of four kinds of noodles and toppings, and a Hong Kong fried chicken sandwich wrapped with crunchy ramen noodles and nestled into a pillowy bao bun: Gotham Market at the Ashland, 590 Fulton Street (Ashland Place), Fort Greene, Brooklyn, no phone, gothammarketashland.com.PUBLIC FARE Union Square Hospitality Group’s outpost in the Bryant Park winter pop-up complex has returned for the season, through March 4, with items like a brioche doughnut and Reuben bratwurst sandwich: Bryant Park, 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas, no phone, ushgnyc.com.CHALSTY’S CAFE FEATURING AMY’S BREAD An airy new second floor cafe at the Museum of the City of New York is being run by Amy Scherber, who owns Amy’s Bread. She stocks it with breads, pastries, salads and sandwiches: 1220 Fifth Avenue (103rd Street), 212-534-1672, mcny.org/visit.THE OSPREY This restaurant in this hotel at Brooklyn Bridge Park is poised to open. It’s a generously windowed space that brings the outdoors inside. The restaurant is run by Matt Abramcyk with the executive chef Michael Oliver, who will be serving mussels in gumbo broth, clam chowder, prime rib with horseradish and several meats spun on a rotisserie. (Thursday): 1 Hotel Brooklyn Bridge, 60 Furman Street (Old Fulton Street), 347-696-2505,  theospreybk.com.DUMONET BROOKLYN Jean-Louis Dumonet, whose résumé includes the Upper East Side restaurant Trois Jean, has been working at the Union Club for the last decade, and his family has a restaurant in Paris. He will open this corner of France next month with his wife, Karen Dumonet, in Brooklyn. They’ve taken over the former Red Rose space: 315 Smith Street (Union Street), Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn.MIZNON The Israeli celebrity chef Eyal Shani says he created the whole-roasted cauliflower dish that is now on many menus in New York and elsewhere. Whether that is the case, he is poised to bring his version to Manhattan in early December, opening a branch of the Tel Aviv-based counter-service chain he owns with the filmmaker Shahar Segal. It will be in Chelsea Market, taking over the former Buon’Italia store and seating 110 in a 2,400-square-foot space. It will have a separate entrance on West 15th Street. Founded in 2008, the Mediterranean-style chain has outposts in Paris, Vienna and Melbourne, Australia: 75 Ninth Avenue (15th Street). ARIEL FOX, who has developed restaurants for OTG, the airport dining management company, has been named executive chef in charge of concepts for the Dos Caminos restaurants.ANDY BENNETT, who was the executive chef at Rouge Tomate Chelsea, has now taken that job at the Sea Grill in Rockefeller Center.ISAAC CORREA This chef, who worked in Moscow with the Coffeemania restaurant group based there, is the new chef at that its first American outpost in New York. The restaurant opened this year on Avenue of the Americas, opposite Bryant Park, but the owners found that most people assumed that it was just a coffee shop, not a full-service restaurant offering breakfast, lunch and dinner. So they have now renamed it L’Adresse American Bistro.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS