AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jake LucasWhen Sam Sifton, The New York Times’s food editor, sits down to a meal at a restaurant, any dish put before him may be studied, subjected to questioning and broken down into a recipe for home cooks.Restaurant meals have inspired recipes on NYT Cooking like scallops topped with shredded duck and hollandaise, spun off from chefs at Joe Beef in Montreal; spinach risotto with taleggio, à la a nettle risotto from River Café in London; and spicy, crispy chicken wings, dreamed up in pursuit of the wings from Ganso in Brooklyn.The Food desk has other ways of adding to the thousands of recipes on the Cooking site and accompanying app, including developing their own. And Mr. Sifton is not alone among the more than 20 reporters and editors on the Food desk as a translator of other people’s cooking. But studying dishes is the way he knows best.Not all great restaurant food is suitable for home cooking, and after decades as a cook and restaurant diner, including two years as The Times’s food critic, Mr. Sifton’s instincts for finding dishes that are suitable for translating are sharp and automatic. But to know for sure, takes reporting. There also, he has experience; nearly three decades as a reporter and editor, including as the head of The Times’s Culture and National desks.“The skills required to figure this stuff out are not the skills of a forensic chef,” he said. “They’re the skills of a journalist asking questions. How did you make this? I don’t have that tool, how can I do it at home? Is it really necessary to add the fairy dust?” (Watch restaurant chefs closely, he says, and you’ll realize the real fairy dust is more salt or butter, or both.)The goal is to find recipes that readers will want to cook. That comes down to finding a balance among a recipe’s ingredients (how many, how unusual, how expensive), steps (how many, how complicated) and payoff (how delicious, how wonderful).If a dish makes an impression on him and seems as if it could be made at home, Mr. Sifton gets to work. He often asks the chef behind it for a recipe, he asks lots and lots of questions, and he cooks it.When possible, he shadows the person who created the dish, as he did with the chef Angie Mar of the Beatrice Inn on a recent Monday in her West Village restaurant. Together, they made a pan-roasted chicken in cream sauce, with morel mushrooms, that’s on her spring menu.At first glance, the dish may seem a little elaborate for the home cook. It calls for cognac, Madeira wine, cream, and morels — luxuries that most people wouldn’t typically reach for. But Mr. Sifton says he was drawn to it because it’s reminiscent of a smothered chicken dinner — American comfort food — and the fancier flairs can be justified. The morels could be substituted for another wild mushroom, while the cognac and Madeira will keep on the shelf long enough that they could be put to use again.“That’s just shopping,” he said. “All the techniques are relatively simple to do.”Sometimes, just one element of a dish is enough to bring to readers. In February, Mr. Sifton wrote  about unsalted butter with a dried seaweed called dulse mixed into it.It caught his attention at the chef Ned Baldwin’s restaurant Houseman, where it was melted on a piece of bluefish that was wrapped in red chard and steamed. So he asked Mr. Baldwin how he made it.The chef explained how he smeared the fish in dulse butter, wrapped it in the chard and slowly cooked it in the oven.In their conversation, Mr. Baldwin told him the dulse butter is what really does it.So, Mr. Sifton melted the imbued butter and poured it on seared scallops.“And the scallops were like three times what they would’ve been plain,” he said. “Everybody can do that.”The butter offered the right balance, giving home cooks a way of creating a taste of what he had in Mr. Baldwin’s restaurant.“Make dulse butter,” Mr. Sifton said. “That’s the lesson there.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS