AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAn AppraisalBy Kim SeversonJudith Jones, who died Wednesday at her house in rural Vermont, wielded her green editing pencil like a knife.With it, she molded the manuscripts of a generation of cookbook authors and gave the food world a literary spine, insisting on airtight recipes and visceral prose.In 1961, when she published Julia Child’s much-rejected manuscript for “Mastering the Art of French Cooking,” Ms. Jones could see what others could not: that cooking would soon become a cultural touchstone in America.Ms. Jones, who took a deeply personal interest in her authors in a way that is nearly extinct in today’s publishing world, was fiercely competitive. Any food trend that smelled like a fad was dismissed out of hand. Stern, serious and often unmovable, Ms. Jones approached cookbooks like works of literature that happened to contain recipes. Still, the books had to be practical.“She did not have that sort of abstract, fake literary-tone-poems-about-food thing. She was interested in a real sense of a real cook in the kitchen,” said Rux Martin, the cookbook editor who once edited the master when they reworked the children’s baking book “Knead It, Punch It, Bake It!,” which Ms. Jones wrote with her husband, Evan.“I was terrified,” Ms. Martin said. “Wouldn’t you be?”It was a sentiment shared by many in her stable at Alfred A. Knopf, where she worked from 1957 until she retired in 2013.“I think all of us were terrified to hand in our manuscripts,” said Joan Nathan, who wrote four books on Jewish cooking with Ms. Jones. “If she put a green ‘nice’ on anything you’d written, you would fly through the sky.”Over the years, her roster included fiction writers like John Updike and Anne Tyler, as well as the chef Jacques Pépin and Edna Lewis, a Southern cook whose book “The Taste of Country Cooking” Ms. Jones pulled out of her one handwritten yellow legal-pad page at a time.“You did not want to raise her ire,” said Scott Peacock, the chef who would go on to write “The Gift of Southern Cooking” with Ms. Lewis under the firm hand of Ms. Jones.On Wednesday, he recalled a story that Marion Cunningham, another of Ms. Jones’s authors, liked to tell about the time she went to Ms. Jones’s Episcopal Church. Ms. Cunningham was a lapsed Roman Catholic, but still mindful that Catholics should take communion only from a Catholic priest.“Once communion commenced, Judith turned to Marion and said, ‘Now you know, Marion, you can go up with me and take communion,” Mr. Peacock wrote in an email. “In that moment, Marion said she had to decide who she was more afraid of, God or Judith Jones? Needless to say, she took communion.”Though Ms. Jones was an agile fiction editor whose break came when she flagged “The Diary of Anne Frank” as a book that should be published in English, she built her reputation on finding well-educated, underappreciated cooks like Ms. Cunningham, Marcella Hazan and Madhur Jaffrey, turning them into stars at a time when home cooking and those who practiced it were looked down upon in a male-dominated publishing world, and celebrity chefs had yet to grip the nation’s imagination.Ms. Jones discovered Ms. Cunningham when she was seeking someone to rework nearly 2,000 recipes from Fannie Merritt Farmer’s 1890 cookbook, and turned to James Beard for advice. He sent Ms. Jones a stack of letters about food from Ms. Cunningham, a California homemaker who was working as his assistant. It started her career.“What she did for Marion and for many of the other women she edited was such an act of kindness,” said Ruth Reichl, the author and former editor of Gourmet magazine. Ms. Jones, she said, was even kind when she rejected her first memoir, “Tender at the Bone.”Ms. Jones sent Ms. Reichl a note saying that she loved the book because she saw it as a bookend to the works of M.F.K. Fisher. But, she said, she would not buy it because her bosses at Knopf didn’t have an appetite for food memoirs at the time.“I don’t think it would be good for you or the book,” Ms. Jones said. Ms. Reichl took her advice and went to another publisher. The book became a best-seller and ushered in the era of the modern food memoir.“It was just incredibly kind, because she knew what would be best for the book and she was realistic about it,” said Ms. Reichl, who called Ms. Jones “wonderfully indignant” on matters of food.“Food started getting serious respect largely because of her,” Ms. Reichl said. “When you talk about the cookbook revolution, she was the revolution.”Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS