AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLetter of RecommendationBy Nicola TwilleyThe promise of a modern sewage system is the freedom to forget that the waste goes somewhere. It’s an indulgence that quickly hardens into abuse — which, in turn, hardens into something else altogether. Over the years, in London, millions of tiny droplets of cooking oil have been funneled down into the city’s underbelly from the drains of fried-chicken shops and curry houses, slipping past grease traps in a swirl of wastewater. At the same time, in homes all across town, wet wipe after wet wipe has been flushed out of sight and into the mix, where their plasticized fibers formed a skeleton around which the fat could accrete. Slowly, the incipient mass began to trap tampons, condoms and often a discarded needle or two in its oily matrix, eventually growing into a monstrous subterranean clot the length of 22 double-decker buses with the weight of a blue whale: the Whitechapel Fatberg.The fatberg was discovered in September 2017; just nine weeks later, it was gone. Utility workers clad in hazmat gear broke up the blockage with water jets and shovels before sucking it out into tanks and processing most of it into biodiesel. One large chunk was saved, however, at the request of the Museum of London, which opened a new exhibition in February titled, simply, “Fatberg!” Its chief attraction is the chance to see, in person, this last remnant of the Whitechapel monstrosity. The week it opened, I lined up, elbowing past school kids and pensioners for the chance to gaze upon the shoebox-size lump.At first glance, a fatberg is not very appealing. Its surface is disconcertingly soft-looking, a beige putty color, waxy in places and chalkier in others. Fatberg scientists — a lonely group — theorize that as cooking oil ages in the low-oxygen conditions of a sewer, it undergoes a process of saponification, hardening into a crumbly, soaplike substance whose nearest relation is the layer of “grave wax” that can mummify a buried corpse in a shroud of its own exuded fat. The museum’s head of conservation, Sharon Robinson-Calver, told me that when the fatberg first arrived, its most notable feature was its smell — a cocktail of rotting meat mixed with dirty diapers, its rancid base notes all but drowned out by an ammoniac tang. When the fatberg was fresh, she recalled, it was still sloppy, with reddish maggots visibly writhing beneath its glutinous surface. By the time I saw it, the fatberg had dried and begun to crumble, revealing the treasures concealed within: I spotted chunks of Styrofoam, as well as the distinctive orange-and-purple plumage of a Double Decker chocolate-bar wrapper.Being superlatively revolting is, however, not enough to merit an object’s display alongside the Museum of London’s priceless collection of Roman ruins, Elizabethan jewelry and Art Deco ironwork — particularly when the thing in question risks infecting staff members with incurable diseases. Robinson-Calver said she kept the fatberg under observation in quarantine for several weeks, submitting it to chemical and X-ray testing before judging it admissible to the museum’s public galleries. In part, the curators and conservators say they went to the trouble of acquiring, conserving and displaying the fatberg in the hope that a face-to-face confrontation with their creation will provoke the shock needed to change Londoners’ habits.Beyond its didactic value, a fatberg functions as a kind of collective self-portrait. Whitechapel High Street, under which the megafatberg was found, was recently named the unhealthiest in Britain thanks to its concentration of fast-food outlets. The wet wipe, which was first introduced to the general public by Colonel Sanders in the 1960s, has, in the past decade, become a luxury alternative to toilet paper in the United States and Britain. Together, reunited in the invisible infrastructure of disposal beneath our feet, they form a negative monument to our lives, in all their monstrous, destructive convenience — the grotesque byproduct of a culture in which fat is too abundant and cheap to bother reusing and even the plushest of toilet paper is no longer worthy of our butts. Below our gleaming, modern metropolis, the city’s dirty secrets lurk, until a blockage ruptures the illusion, forcing Londoners to confront their Dorian Gray-like reflection in a lump of congealed fat and sanitary products.These arguments for saving and studying the fatberg are compelling enough, to my mind, but the opportunity to gaze upon it within the museum context achieves something more. Just a few miles northeast of the Whitechapel Fatberg’s underground lair lies the site of the work for which the sculptor Rachel Whiteread is best known: a concrete cast of the interior of a Victorian terraced house in London’s East End. The resulting sculpture made visible the traces — the cracks, dents and stains — we leave on our environments by living.On a plinth, its smell safely neutralized behind acrylic and glass, the fatberg begins to resemble an accidental Whiteread — short on poetry, perhaps, but equally powerful. Collected, conserved and described on a wall label, the fatberg is made equal in value to the museum’s other treasures — as worthy of our attentive gaze, as much a part of our urban lore as the ancient “London Stone” or the 2012 Olympic caldron. Like the city itself, it’s ours, and yet it is bigger than us — both familiar and strange, mythic and banal.Nicola Twilley is a co-host of the food-science and history podcast “Gastropod.”Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS