AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOff the MenuBy Florence FabricantLUMOS KITCHEN Baijiu, the spirit that sells more than any other in the world, takes center stage at this eclectic new Chinese restaurant, which represents a step up for the owner, Qifan Li. Four years ago she created Lumos Bar on Houston Street, specializing in baijiu, with Orson Salicetti, a baijiu lover, behind the bar. Now she is opening Lumos Kitchen because she and Mr. Salicetti felt they had to serve more food. “Baijiu is usually drunk with food,” Ms. Li said. (She has since closed Lumos Bar, replacing it with Railways, a gastro pub.) Hok Chin, a Hong Kong native and a veteran of some of New York’s French kitchens, including at the Essex House and the Mark Hotel, fuses French and Chinese cuisine, in dishes like pan-seared quail with foie gras in a Chinese wine sauce, black bass glazed with baijiu-miso sauce, wok-fried tiger prawns, and foie gras fried rice. To go alongside, Mr. Salicetti has come up with cocktails like a sesame colada with mangosteen, and the El Paso, combining baijiu with Lillet, lime, Sichuan pepper, cucumber and cilantro. His bar is stocked with more than 30 baijius, including some infused with herbs in-house. The airy restaurant, with splashy blue leaves decorating the walls, has a semi-open kitchen: 188 Second Avenue (12th Street), no phone, lumoskitchen.com.CHAT ‘N’ CHEW Andrew Silverman’s comfort-food restaurant has returned to its original location after a four-year absence. It was in business for 20 years when it closed after a rent increase, but Mr. Silverman said he decided to reopen because of neighborhood demand. “A lot of the folks said they missed my Thanksgiving on a roll and turkey meatballs,” he said. “This is a neighborhood restaurant, but a lot of the coffee shops around here have closed.” Most of the signature items, like sweet-and-sticky jumbo chicken wings, three-cheese grilled cheese, mac and cheese, and, yes, the Thanksgiving dinner on a roll, are back on the menu. The new place will also serve vegetarian chili and a vegetable bowl that relies on ingredients from the nearby Greenmarket. (Opens Thursday): 10 East 16th Street, 212-243-1616.MAMAN & MIMI Jacques Ouari, a French restaurateur on the New York scene for more than 20 years, has turned his space in NoLIta, formerly Jacques 1534, into a homage to his Algerian and French grandparents. The menu features tagines, flatbreads and the inevitable steak-frites. A bar, Maman & Mimi Sous-Sol, occupies the basement: 20 Prince Street (Mott Street), 212-966-8886, mamanandmimi.com.CORNER HOUSE BBQ The restaurateur and chef Peter Botros is becoming influential on Staten Island, as he opens his third restaurant, this one a fairly classic barbecue joint. (Friday): 102 Lincoln Avenue (North Railroad Avenue), Grant City, Staten Island, 718-987-1227, cornerhousebbq.com.INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY Next year, when the new home for the International Center of Photography opens on the Lower East Side as part of the huge Essex Crossing development, it will include an event space run by Daniel Humm and Will Guidara’s company, Make It Nice. Spread over the two top floors of the center’s new home, a four-story building that covers a full city block between Essex and Ludlow Streets, the space is a partnership among Make It Nice, the center and the building’s developers. It represents the first time Make It Nice has an off-premises catering site.PAUL LIEBRANDT, the avant-garde chef who has been doing consulting work, will be the executive chef at Racines NY in TriBeCa from Monday to May 31. The restaurant is calling it a “spring residency.” It has been without an executive chef since its chef left for France, and the replacement, Eric Korsh, was dismissed for allegations of misconduct. Mr. Liebrandt will offer three- and five-course menus with optional wine pairings by Pascaline Lepeltier, a master sommelier, and Arnaud Tronche, partners in the restaurant.SOTA ATSUMI, who was the executive chef of the historic, restored Parisian hot spot Clown Bar, left to open his own restaurant, Maison. In the run-up to its opening, he will be in New York, cooking items from Maison’s menu at Chefs Club from April 26 to July 21. Dishes like baby lettuces with pickled sardines, tomato consommé and lemon oil; and savory French toast with squid ink, lentils and egg yolk, will be served à la carte or as part of a five-course tasting menu for $85. The décor and tableware at Chefs Club will reflect his aesthetic: Chefs Club, 275 Mulberry Street (Houston Street), 212-941-1100, chefsclub.com.MATTHEW KIRKLEY AND MIMI CHEN, the head chef and commis of Team U.S.A., which has been training to compete in the biennial Bocuse d’Or culinary contest to be held next January in Lyon, France, has secured a place in the finals. The team came in first in the Americas competition, a preliminary round last week in which 11 countries from the Western Hemisphere competed. Team U.S.A. won gold in the 2017 Bocuse d’Or and is sponsored by the Ment’or BKB Foundation run by Daniel Boulud, Thomas Keller and Jérôme Bocuse, the son of Paul Bocuse, who founded the contest.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS