AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byMy DetoxIsabella Capece Galeota, of Paris’s vegan and gluten-free Café Maisie, recommends juices for the changing season.By Merrell HambletonIn our series My Detox, T asks creative people to share the homemade recipes they count on to cleanse and refresh.“I’ve never really been a junk food addict,” says Isabella Capece Galeota, the owner of Paris’s vegan and gluten-free Café Maisie. “I’m Italian, and Italians are very much about genuine product — how ripe and tasty the tomato is, the quality of everything.” Still, when Capece Galeota, who also oversees communications for Berluti and the Louis Vuitton Foundation, came to Paris 18 years ago, “things went a little astray.” Busy building her career and social life, “healthy food was put on the side for a while.” She became, in her words, “a pasta freak.”Then, about 10 years ago, Capece Galeota started to feel tired — like she needed more fuel. She’d also developed pain along her sciatic nerve. “My body was telling me I wasn’t doing something right,” she says. Around that time, on a vacation in South Africa with her husband, the furniture dealer Xavier Barroux, she met an instructor who introduced her to Iyengar yoga. “My sciatic nerve felt like someone had just ironed it out,” Capece Galeota says. “It was love at first sight.” When she returned to Paris, she immediately started a practice.The physical awareness she found through yoga is, she says, what brought her to cold-pressed juicing. “It allowed my digestive system to get a little rest,” she says. “I think today we generally need rest from a lot of things.” With the help of a nutritionist, she slowly eliminated meat and dairy from her diet and began doing regular cleanses. When she couldn’t find fresh juice in Paris, she says, “I started making it in my kitchen.” This led to making her own bread and granola and the purchase of a large dehydrator, which she placed in the middle of her living room. “It would make this huge sound,” she says. “That’s when my husband drew the line.” He encouraged her to bring her recipes to a broader audience — outside the home. Maisie, which Barroux runs, followed shortly after.These days — especially as the seasons change — Capece Galeota does regular one- and two-day cleanses. “We tend to think, ‘Oh, that’s just for nature,’ but the change in seasons can really tire you,” she says. On a detox day, she’ll wake early — around 7 — and drink a cup of hot water with lemon peel (“It’s called a canarino, it’s very Italian.”). After 30 minutes of yoga in her living room and a shower, she returns to the kitchen for breakfast. “There’s no fixed routine,” she says. “Either I’ll juice or I’ll make a smoothie, depending on how I feel.” Two favorites, the recipes for which Capece Galeota shares below, are the Maisie Beetroot Juice and the Cleanse, a green juice with an energizing zip of ginger or mint. She’ll pair this with a cup of steeped green tea from Mariage Frères or matcha from Toraya. “I try to get a lot of sleep, and I try to stay away from social media,” she says. “By, Monday morning, I feel like a tiger!”Though Capece Geleota says she’s picked up ideas from American wellness culture (“I love Juice Press!”), she draws a clear distinction between the French and American approach to healthy eating. “The French are very demanding in terms of taste,” she says. “It needs to be good before anything else.” And, she insists, she doesn’t make her diet a religion. “I go with the flow,” she says, but admits, “I’m very fragile when it comes to parmigiano.”∙ 1½ green apples∙ 1 lemon, peeled∙ 2 ounces fennel∙ 1 large beet∙ ⅓ cup of coconut water∙ 1½ tablespoons waterChop ingredients and juice using a cold-press juicer. Serves one.∙ 1 green apple∙ 4 ounces celery or fennel∙ 3 ounces cucumber∙ 1 ounce spinach or cabbage∙ 1 lemon, peeled∙ A pinch of ginger or fresh mintChop ingredients and juice using a cold-press juicer. Serves one.Capece Galeota suggests that “no detox would be successful without a good playlist.” Right now, hers includes Childish Gambino, Lucio Battisti and the Psychedelic Furs.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS