AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Robert SimonsonManhattan is an island. It sits at the northern end of New York Harbor. The bartender Brian Miller, who with Major Food Group is poised to open a sprawling tiki bar — in Midtown West, just a block from a bus depot with “port” in its name — wants you to remember that.“I want to bring the Polynesian islands to the island of Manhattan,” Mr. Miller said. “Just because we live in an urban jungle doesn’t mean we can’t celebrate that we live on an island.”The Polynesian, which will open the week of April 16 on the third floor of the Pod Hotel Times Square on West 42nd Street, is New York’s latest attempt to embrace the tiki-bar revival. Past bars, most of them short-lived, have been small, even cramped affairs. The Polynesian will not be like that: Like most undertakings by Major Food Group, which owns Carbone and Dirty French, it is a tad over the top.“We are committed to making the Polynesian the best tiki bar in the world,” Jeff Zalaznick, a partner in Major Food Group, said in a statement, with typical restraint.The 4,900-square-foot, L-shaped space will have sweeping views of the city on two sides, and a balcony that equals the interior in size and seating — in all, room for 200 people. A private room in the back, where Mr. Miller will keep his considerable stash of rare and vintage rums, will evoke the captain’s table on a ship.The décor, by Vanessa Guilford, takes deep turquoise as its predominant color note, and includes large murals, teakwood floors, bamboo ceilings, a 30-foot-long lava-rock bar top, and cut-metal screens that evoke Polynesian masks.It’s an expansive vision of tiki culture the likes of which New York has not seen since the days of Trader Vic’s and the Hawaiian Room of the Hotel Lexington. “New York’s been waiting for it,” Mr. Miller said. “And honestly, I feel like people have been waiting for me to do it.”Mr. Miller, 47, is one of perhaps a half-dozen figures who spearheaded the recent tiki renaissance in the United States, and the only one without a bar. Instead, he has spread the aesthetic through an itinerant tropical party called “Tiki Mondays.” The event began in 2011 at the SoHo bar Lani Kai (since closed), and later put in time at the Gold Bar, Mother’s Ruin and Pouring Ribbons.He worked at ZZ’s Clam Bar, Major Food’s pocket-size cocktail and raw bar in Greenwich Village, and in 2014, the partners asked him to pitch his idea for a bar. For the presentation, Mr. Miller had leis mailed from Hawaii, and brought in an act called the Hula Belly Sisters. It worked.“My idea was Trader Vic’s meets ‘Mad Men’ meets ‘Pirates of the Caribbean,’” Mr. Miller said. Food will include pu pu platters and what Major Food boasts will be a “best-of-class Crab Rangoon.”The four-panel folding bar menu, modeled after Trader Vic’s, lists 19 cocktails, four large-format shared drinks (one is served in a fish bowl) and two virgin cocktails. Among them are a few originals Mr. Miller has popularized over the years, like the Double-Barrel Winchester, which employs four different gins to create a panoply of flavors; the Fiddler’s Green, a cross between two classic tiki drinks, the Blue Hawaiian and the Montego Bay, served from a slushie machine; and the Smokin’ Sarong, a mélange of Scotch, coconut, tea and honey.Speaking of sarongs, Mr. Miller, who promises to be at the Polynesian every day for its first year, will wear one as host, just as he often did at “Tiki Mondays.”“Everyone knows I will be in a sarong,” he said. “Sarongs will be optional for staff.”The Polynesian, 400 West 42nd Street, Manhattan.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS