AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Susan ShainFor many of us, the beginning of the year involves cutting back: on Negronis, Nutella, Netflix, on whatever we previously overindulged in — which often includes unnecessary spending.But what about forgoing the act of shopping altogether?Though a shopping ban might sound impractical — or like an elite exercise for those with so much they can simply opt out of consumerism — that wasn’t the case for Cait Flanders, author of “The Year of Less.”By 2013, Ms. Flanders had spent two austere years paying off nearly $23,000 of debt. But, rather than feeling free in the months that followed, she was dismayed by the increasing amount of money she was mindlessly spending.Determined to regain control of her finances, she eventually forbade herself to shop for an entire year. During the ban, she confronted bad habits; learned to borrow, make and mend; and found value in herself instead of the objects around her.To Ms. Flanders, a shopping ban is not a renouncement of worldly possessions or a declaration that buying stuff is bad; it’s a pause that helps you establish your priorities. “Think of it as a timeout from bringing new things into your life, until you know what you’re working toward,” she explained. “From there, you can figure out what belongs.”Intrigued? Here are her tips for implementing your own shopping ban.Before you can change your habits, you must first identify them.“If you don’t understand your consumption as a whole, it’s hard to come up with shopping ban rules that make sense,” Ms. Flanders said.She recommends using a pen and paper to track your spending for at least a month. While apps can automate the process, she doesn’t find them as effective as manual tracking.“For me, if it’s just numbers that are magically being updated online, I still don’t understand how often I’m spending money — it’s just a category,” she explained. “The more you write things down, the more you realize whether or not you’re happy with the fact you’ve spent that money.”Walk around your home, determining what you have the most of — and, therefore, what you’ve spent the most on. Maybe it’s books. Maybe it’s shoes. Maybe it’s empty LaCroix cans.Then ask yourself: Do you really need more? If the answer is no (which it probably is, for everything but the LaCroix), put it on the ban list.Though Ms. Flanders got rid of nearly half her belongings when she started the ban, she recognizes the privilege in decluttering — and doesn’t think it’s a necessary step for everyone. “Simply taking stock of what you own will help prevent more impulse purchases,” she said.Unless you move into the woods, you probably can’t forgo all commercial transactions. So the answer’s not to buy absolutely nothing; it’s to create rules that are reasonable yet challenging.Ms. Flanders allowed herself to shop for groceries and basic kitchen supplies, gas, cosmetics and toiletries (if she ran out), cleaning products and gifts. She also created an “approved shopping list” of items — like a pair of winter boots and a bed — she already knew she’d need. She could still travel and occasionally eat at restaurants, and could replace anything that wore out or broke, as long as she tossed or donated the original.On the ban list? Takeout coffee, clothes, shoes, accessories, household items like décor and furniture, books, magazines, electronics and anything else not previously approved.While her shopping ban lasted an entire year, Ms. Flanders recommends choosing a length of time that feels “manageable” to you, whether that’s 30 days or six months. “Really be honest with yourself,” she said. “Everyone’s rules will be completely different.”Since she lives alone, Ms. Flanders could’ve easily broken the ban without anyone finding out. She kept herself accountable by blogging about it and asking family and friends for support.“The times I thought about giving up, my best friend was great at getting me back in line,” Ms. Flanders said. “She’d say: ‘You don’t need to buy that — what are you working toward?’”As with a diet, a shopping ban will have long-term effects only if you change your underlying habits and their triggers.Ms. Flanders, for example, quickly discovered how many activities made her crave takeout coffee: firing up her computer, taking an afternoon break, running errands, going on road trips. To encourage change, she always left coffee supplies on her counter. Whenever she felt the urge to purchase a latte, she made one instead. “When you figure out a better habit, make sure it’s really accessible,” she advised.Take some time to observe your triggers, then do your best to eliminate them. For many people, that includes ads — so consider canceling cable, unfollowing brands on social media and unsubscribing from deals newsletters. And avoid visiting retailer websites “just to browse.”When Ms. Flanders was a child, her parents did “almost everything themselves.” They gardened, cooked, canned and sewed. But as she grew older, she became accustomed to the speed and convenience of the era.Halfway through her ban, Ms. Flanders borrowed her aunt’s sewing machine and learned to sew. She mended clothes that, in years past, she would’ve thrown out. She started a small garden.We all can find ways to incorporate these ideas into our lives where we have the knowledge, time and access. Instead of buying a tent for your first camping trip, borrow one from a friend. Instead of hiring someone to repair your bike, watch a video and attempt to fix it yourself. You may stumble on a skill or talent you never knew you had, and bonus: You’ll save money in the process.On Black Friday, Ms. Flanders succumbed to a discounted e-reader, then canceled the order a few minutes later. Rather than berating herself for “failing,” which would’ve given her an excuse to abandon the challenge completely, she accepted her purchase for what it was: a minuscule mistake.“Instead of stressing so much about the one thing you purchased, ask yourself why it happened — what was going on in your life?” Ms. Flanders said. “If the bigger goal is still something you want to work toward, learn from it and carry on. If you were successful for 364 days instead of 365, that’s a huge win.”Though Ms. Flanders saved almost $14,000 during her shopping ban — and even continued it for a second year — it’s the life lessons she prizes most.“I learned to be content with what I have,” she said. “Before, I was always thinking some thing could improve my life.” Now, she has an exact purpose for everything she buys, and it’s never to fill a void.“That was the most important lesson,” she said. “I was finally happy enough with who I was. I realized I am this imperfect human being — as we all are — and no object was going to make me better.”Susan Shain is a freelance writer who specializes in travel, food and personal finance. Follow her on Twitter: @susan_shain.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS