AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBecause they definitely love Dimes.By Hayley PhelanThe idea of a restaurant collaborating with a fine jewelry brand sounds like a stretch, but for anyone familiar with the Lower East Side eatery Dimes, or its supercool founders, Sabrina de Sousa and Alissa Wagner, it seems natural. They have already won the hearts of many of the city’s fashionable denizens thanks to an inventive healthy-but-not-in-a-health-store-way menu and sunny décor. Now the pair has teamed up with Loquet, a jewelry company founded in London by Laura Bailey and Sheherazade Goldsmith that has built a cultish following for its 21st-century take on lockets. Think simple gold pieces with crystal centers that allow you to see the charms inside.The capsule, which will be carried at Broken English in SoHo starting April 17, mines the Dimes menu, with food-inspired charms including a fruit slice, an avocado and a sunny-side-up egg. Just don’t take a bite.Dimes for Loquet capsule collection of 14-karat gold charms with enamel, sapphires and tsavorite, $350 each at Broken English; brokenenglishjewelry.com.We may have “Wild Wild Country,” the hit Netflix docu-series about the Rajneeshpuram society of the 1980s, to blame for this. Suddenly pink-and-red color combinations, part of the dress code of the movement (or cult, as some call it), are everywhere. And as striking as the hues were in the Oregon backcountry, they’re statement making on New York streets.Eatable of Many Orders puckered cotton knit top, $262 at no6store.com; Super Yaya cotton skirt, $460 at openingceremony.com. “People ask me all the time what they can do to take control of their sexual and reproductive health,” said Meika Hollender, the founder and chief executive of Sustain Natural, a company that makes all-natural vagina-friendly essentials. “My answer? Start talking.” That’s what Ms. Hollender has been doing over the last four years while building her brand, fielding questions via social media and customer service on masturbation, vaginal dryness, HPV, condom culture, consent and more. Her latest endeavor, the book “Get on Top,” aims to keep those conversations going. To celebrate its publication, she is hosting a pop-up on the Bowery. Each day will be themed around a chapter in the book and feature female speakers, including Alisa Vitti, the founder of the online health site Flo Living, and the pornographic film star Asa Akira. Beyond those events, guests can snap up Sustain lubricants, tampons and the like, or simply wander the store. (People will surely be snapping Instagrams — perhaps of the neon vulva art installations and tampon-filled bathtubs — but Ms. Hollender hopes to get them talking: “It’s high time for us to start having these conversations IRL.”)Get on Top Pop-Up, April 17 to 22 at 208 Bowery. Spring break is long gone, but things are only just beginning to heat up on the East Coast, making now the ideal time to start stocking up on summer staples. Aiding the endeavor (or enabling the indulgence) is this well-timed collaboration between the Colombian designer Johanna Ortiz and the retailer Mytheresa.com, for which Ms. Ortiz dreamed up a wardrobe for a weekend getaway in Cartagena. Filled with tropical prints, on-trend polka dots and plenty of her signature flounces, the capsule promises to transport you even if you have no plane ticket booked.Johanna Ortiz cotton dress, $1,750 at mytheresa.com.According to several studies — and long-held spiritual wisdom — showing or simply feeling gratitude has mental health benefits, including promoting a happy frame of mind. Still, somewhere between missing the subway doors by a split second and being stomped on by a stranger, it’s easy to forget to give thanks. Helpfully, the downtown New York label Veda has released a wearable reminder: two tees in pink or white bearing the words “Thank You.” Best of all, the founder Lyndsey Butler will donate the proceeds to the Women’s Prison Association, an organization that has been helping women ensnared in the criminal justice system to better their lives since 1845.Veda cotton T-shirt, $48 at Veda; thisisveda.com.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS