AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLettersTo the Editor:Re “Trump’s Budget Favors Military, Inflating Deficit” (front page, Feb. 13):It seems to me that the White House put the proverbial cart before the horse. Shouldn’t the budget have come first, laying out the country’s spending needs, before the tax plan?The tax cuts will strip away a large portion of the federal resources that should have been available to finance the budget. We now have a proposal from the White House that would have the states come up with the money, presumably from state taxes, to supplement federal funds for infrastructure projects, a version of robbing Peter to pay Paul.LOIS BLOOM, WILLIAMSBURG, VA.To the Editor:Even the most poorly informed Trump voters knew full well that he lied on the campaign trail and in the presidential debates repeatedly and without compunction. Yet his working-class supporters somehow thought he was not lying to them when he promised support for Medicare, Social Security and other programs that they and their children rely upon?Their determination to ignore (and in some cases even celebrate) President Trump’s lies in the fun and games of the political season has now come home to roost. There would be truly awful consequences for them if his budget priorities should actually be adopted.MIKE WOFFORD, OKLAHOMA CITYTo the Editor:Re “Plan, Unliked and Unlikely, Replaces Some Food Stamps With a Box of Food” (news article, Feb. 14):Of all the absurd and misguided ideas touted in the budget released by President “King of Debt” Trump, none are quite as utterly ridiculous as sending food boxes to food stamp recipients to compensate for cutting their benefits. I thought a favorite rallying cry of Republicans was against the “nanny state.” What could be more intrusive and nanny-like than deciding what people will eat?!Forget the totally impossible logistics (if you can) and consider that someone sitting in D.C. will decide which particular vegetables, meats, grains and dairy a poor family struggling to survive will eat. Are they going to screen each family for allergies, wheat or dairy sensitivity, health or weight issues? Or are they going to send “menus” ahead allowing the family members to check off what they prefer, as in a nursing home?If I hadn’t read it in The New York Times, I would have thought it was straight out of a “Saturday Night Live” skit. It would be laughable if it weren’t so Orwellian and scary.DAPHNE CASE, NORWALK, CONN.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS