AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe ShortlistBy Miranda SeymourL’APPART The Delights and Disasters of Making My Paris Home By David Lebovitz 354 pp. Crown. $27.Lebovitz’s first home in Paris was a double-size version of one of those top-floor garrets to which hardworking maids were once relegated. “L’Appart” is a smartly arch account of this American chef’s hunt for a larger home in which to indulge his passions. Nothing titillatingly perverse, if you’re wondering. “Every time I pulled open those doors,” Lebovitz writes, gazing fondly into the glacial abyss of his preferred supersize refrigerator, “I felt like I was opening a new chapter of my life in Paris.” To each his own.The book’s chief device is to end every episode in the author’s pursuit of apartment heaven with a recipe that adds a sting — or sugardrop — to its tail. So a startling account of Lebovitz’s attempt to urinate into a flimsy paper cup (French banks seek reassurance about the health of clients to whom they’re about to extend a loan) artfully concludes with his recommended ingredients for pizza aux pissenlits (dandelion flatbread). The satisfaction of cherry-picking his ideal French realtor — sassy Catherine, on her scooter — is more appetizingly celebrated with far aux cerises (a boldly original cherry flan).The matching of subjects with moods that (because of soaring repair costs and fiendishly manipulative workmen) are often “un peu triste”  proves to be the highlight of a book that might have entertained more if pruned to half its length. Despite my best efforts to empathize with Lebovitz’s travails — how much concern can anyone summon for the precise distance a dishwasher stands from a sink? — I didn’t weep when the second, more professional work team commented on the first crew’s efforts to modernize Lebovitz’s new appart by predicting its owner’s imminent demise by electrocution or carbon-dioxide poisoning. “You’re going to die.”He doesn’t. Instead, “regardless of a few bad pommes” along the way, the newly housed chef lives on to share his hard-won wisdom.The quest has brought a profound insight, one he’s eager to share. Ready? “Paris was always Paris, and the French were … well, the French.”A TASTE OF PARIS A History of the Parisian Love Affair With Food By David Downie 280 pp. St. Martin’s. $26.99.“Excitement isn’t a state of being I enjoy while dining,” Downie confides. He’s describing an evening meal at the sweetly sedate and horribly expensive Paris restaurant La Tour d’Argent. In a book that skillfully combines culinary history with reports from some of the city’s most tasteful arrondissements, he adopts the conceit of a historian’s walking tour, conflating past with present in gorgeous style.Starting on the Île de la Cité, Downie compares it to a ship anchored midstream in the Seine, “a floating Holy of Holies in the flow of Paris history.” Strolling on, telling tales of Charles V’s knife-wielding master cook Guillaume Tirel (nicknamed “Taillevent” for the swiftness with which he could slice up a daily court feast of 300 chickens, 36 suckling kids, 300 pigeons, 36 gosling geese, 11 sheep and 3 sides each of beef, veal and pork), Downie arrives unbloodied at the feet of Marie de Médicis. Describing this frail Italian princess, who ballooned into a gargantuan widow after the demise of Henri IV, Downie notes that Rubens captured her girth “on enough canvas to sail fleets of galleons.” Was the subject of “these sumptuous smorgasbords of color” not just a glutton, he wonders, but also “the prototypical narcissist”?Bloated royalty offers plenty of succulent targets for Downie’s knifelike pen. Louis XVI, pausing on his abortive flight from Paris to devour a dish of pig’s trotters in which “the bones burst like bonbons, flooding the mouth with warm, liquefied marrow,” cooked his final goose when he demanded — and ravenously shredded — an entire roast chicken while facing his scornful accusers in court. Quoting Dumas, Downie tartly remarks that the king put his own twist on Descartes: “I am so I eat.”Perhaps Downie takes food a bit too seriously. Balzac is scolded for being “an ecstatic, compulsive gorger and borderline glutton” who devoured “congealed cold cuts and other toxic snacks.” Not so our dapper author, savoring a tasteful supper facing the colonnade of the Louvre at Le Fumoir: “How delicious my appealingly plated but very old-fashioned roast pork loin with mustard sauce à l’ancienne. How polite and professional the service. How affordable the more than potable Château Haut-Musset Lalande-de-Pomerol.”EATING ETERNITY Food, Art and Literature in France By John Baxter 267 pp. Museyon. Paper, $19.95.Entertaining, wide-ranging and gorgeously illustrated, “Eating Eternity” — despite its weird title — is a book you’ll want to lend to a friend. (But insist on its return.) As generous with his anecdotes as with his apt quotations (rejoice in Brillat-Savarin’s “a meal without wine is like a day without sunshine” and Molière’s “I live on good soup, not fine words”), Baxter broadens gastronomy into the fields of art and literature. The results are beguiling. Who ever suspected that Proust’s famous madeleine almost lost out to a plain slice of “pain grillé”? Or that Chez Voisin’s 1870 siege menu of antelope, cat and rat also offered its famished clients the impeccable liquid refreshment of Chateau Mouton Rothschild and Chateau Palmer?Some of the best treats provided by Baxter’s delightful book are his startling asides. Comparing Picasso’s utter indifference to haute cuisine with Matisse’s daintier palate, he embellishes a description of Matisse’s penchant for brandade de morue with unexpected advice: that the repeated washing of the codfish was best achieved, some housewives found, by a day’s soak in the cistern of a flush toilet. He also informs us that Alexis Soyer, the 19th-century father of modern celebrity cooking, couldn’t tolerate clothing cut on straight lines. And that wasn’t all: His visiting cards, cigar case and even the handle of his cane had “slightly oblique inclinations.”One grumble: Why is it that such an insider’s guide fails to point out the virtues of traveling outside the familiar tourist precincts? It’s there that some of the tastiest and least expensive food in Paris is to be found, but perhaps a dedicated gourmand is reluctant to share with visitors what to Parisians is an open secret. Then again, it’s also true, as Baxter briefly reminds us, that McDonald’s has met with great success in France. The French gave America the Statue of Liberty. It seems they like the “merci” they received in return.Miranda Seymour’s next book, “In Byron’s Wake: The Turbulent Lives of Lady Byron and Ada Lovelace,” will be published later this year.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up for our newsletter.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS