AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEntertaining WithBy Kari MolvarThe CAP Beauty founders Kerrilynn Pamer and Cindy DiPrima Morisse celebrated the release of their new holistic self-care book with a casual spring dinner party — and passed along some entertaining tips.“We’ve always said, what goes into your body shows up on your skin,” says Cindy DiPrima Morisse of the fundamental mind-set behind CAP Beauty, the New York wellness boutique she founded with her friend and business partner, Kerrilynn Pamer, three years ago. Since its inception, the rose-quartz-toned shop in the West Village has become a mecca for beauty enthusiasts seeking natural skin care, synthetic-free makeup and healthy pantry items — everything from complexion-brightening watermelon jerky to inflammation-calming turmeric teas — for a glow that truly comes “from within,” they say. Now, the duo has decided to distill their vast wellness knowledge into a new book, called “High Vibrational Beauty,” due out in April. Filled with recipes and self-care rituals organized by season, it espouses the belief that beauty should engage all the senses and that “when we connect, we radiate.” In a nod to that sentiment, they gathered friends together to celebrate the book’s release with a spring dinner party held in a private space at Haven’s Kitchen, a converted carriage house restaurant in New York.When planning the seasonal menu with Los Angeles-based chef Greg Arnold, the founders knew they wanted a mix of vegan and gluten-free dishes, a reflection of their own dietary habits. (About 10 years ago, Pamer was diagnosed with celiac disease and DiPrima Morisse adopted a clean approach to eating in her early 20s, after her mother died of cancer.) Not that eliminating foods has stopped either one of them from serving delicious meals at dinner parties. In fact, “I think a lot of people are curious,” says DiPrima Morisse of their guests’ willingness to experiment. “It’s really about exposing them to this beautiful food that happens to be healthy.” (And as a bonus, it “won’t cause a sugar or salt hangover,” she adds.) Here, Pamer and DiPrima Morisse share their tips for elevated, health-conscious entertaining. Rather than serving a wimpy crudité platter, Pamer and DiPrima Morisse set the tone with a substantial, grand spread of market vegetables: They created a six-foot-long tasting board filled with heaps of romanesco, heirloom carrots, cucumbers and English peas. Rounding out the mix were gluten-free crostini layered with a matcha cashew spread, edible nasturtium flowers, radishes and pickled mustard seeds, which deliver a body-warming kick.Guests sipped on the Royal Bee, a frothy concoction of dry gin, rosemary syrup, lemon juice, champagne and bee mana — a powdered form of royal jelly extracted from beehives that’s concentrated with fortifying vitamin B-12, minerals and antioxidants. “It’s almost perfume-y and gives you this force feeling,” says Pamer. For those not partaking in alcohol, the elixir made for a refreshing mocktail as well, minus the gin and champagne. “There’s a lot of Japanese influences in the book,” says Pamer, noting that many of the plant-based recipes put a modern twist on traditional Asian ingredients: A dish they named “Good Morning Tokyo” had cauliflower rice (created by simply grating the head of the vegetable) with daikon and lotus root confit gravlax drenched in umami-rich dashi (a Japanese seaweed-based broth or stock, which can be made ahead and stored in the fridge to prep for a party). Another dish featured kelp noodles, which are packed with nutrients and flavor and are “incredibly easy” to make, says DiPrima Morisse, who adds that they can be found in most health food stores, prepared and ready to go. “You don’t even need to cook them,” she says. The noodles were topped with a creamy sauce of cashews, lemon and umami powder, and then speckled with activated charcoal — a detoxifying ingredient popular for its skin-clearing benefits.When serving multiple courses, not everything needs to be super complex. For example, guests dined on thin slices of vegan okonomiyaki, an ode to the traditional Japanese pancake made with aquafaba and garbanzo mayonnaise as a starter. But then for dessert, Pamer and DiPrima Morisse served a medley of figs, goji berries, dried apricots, pistachios, salted cocoa bark and matcha crystals — along with small bowls for guests to serve themselves during the post-meal hangout. Both Pamer and DiPrima Morisse are fond of constructing makeshift shrines in their homes — an installation of sorts that becomes an instant conversation piece at a party, too. While building one may sound complicated, it really isn’t: DiPrima Morisse (who is a former prop stylist) went to the flower market and picked out a large branch and potted jasmine tree. “Just start with a couple of grand things — branches are tall, almost architectural and give you a lot of bang for your buck since they’re usually less expensive than flowers and generally last a lot longer,” she says. Then mix in elements that relate to a theme — in the case of the party, that meant “our love of animals, food and nature,” explains DiPrima Morisse, pointing to a pair of antique horse statues, a small sky-blue vase sculpted by her grandfather, the potter Will Low Bacher, and fresh oranges scattered around. “Nothing is too precious,” insists Pamer, noting that the hot-pink roses dotted the altar “to prevent people from walking into the branches.” When she spots a few ants crawling on the bark, she shrugs and says with a laugh, “They are welcome to our feast, too.”Rather than rely on room perfumes, Pamer and DiPrima Morisse prefer incense — specifically copal, a resin from tropical trees that produces an earthy, calming smell. Pamer is so obsessed that she burns copal almost constantly at home, declaring it “the new palo santo.” Since the scent can be intense in a confined space, place it on a back table, so it slowly wafts through the room during cocktails. (Pamer, who recently relocated from New York to Los Angeles to oversee the new CAP Beauty outpost within Fred Segal, puts a stick outside an open sliding glass door, where the breeze carries in the grounding fragrance.) When the meal is served, burn candles on the tables — but keep them unscented to avoid overpowering the food. When entertaining, the founders often opt for wines that are biodynamic (produced under certain soil and lunar conditions) or organic (made without chemicals on the vineyard) to complement a variety of botanical dishes. Natural wines, on the other hand, might be a harder sell for guests, says DiPrima Morisse, who finds that some varieties taste a little “off” or have clumps of sediment because of their lack of additives. In the end: Serve what you like — in case you end up with a large stash of bottles after the party. Entertaining With:Chelsea Hansford and Daniel Corrigan of Simon MillerSophie BuhaiRabih KayrouzBrunello Cucinelli AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS