AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Florence FabricantThe cute name that Riad Nasr and Lee Hanson chose for the TriBeCa restaurant they’ll open early next week is not meant to suggest a smaller or less serious French restaurant. “Frenchette” is the title of a song David Johansen recorded in 1978, long before the chefs met in the kitchen of Daniel.The culinary partnership they began a quarter-century ago, in 1993, is a rare one: The two have worked together on equal footing, rather than as a chef and a loyal second-in-command, or a chef and restaurateur.Now, after years of cooking at Keith McNally’s restaurants, they finally have their own place. And they’re still on speaking terms.“Mostly,” Mr. Nasr said, his low-key humor on display. The secret? Plenty of room for give-and take.Frenchette leans heavily on their training in traditional French cooking and their experience at Balthazar, Minetta Tavern, Pastis and Schiller’s Liquor Bar. But they say their tastes, like those of the dining public, have changed. “Our food has become less adorned, with less sauce,” said Mr. Nasr, 53. (Mr. Hanson is 51.)They intend to engage several local farms, not just for produce but also for meat and poultry, nose-to-tail. They’ll serve only dinner at first, though they soon plan to open from morning, with breakfast, through late evening.The restaurant has a welcoming bar, some booths in front and two dining areas beyond, done in a Parisian-looking blend of Modernism and Art Deco. Designed by Springs Collective of Brooklyn, it features richly polished, curving woodwork against cream walls, lit by vintage-style fluorescent fixtures and globe lights.Dinner takes the traditional bistro menu in some challenging directions, with foie gras toast, pigs’ foot croquettes, watercress soup, Peconic snails with scrambled eggs, sweetbreads, rabbit stew and a gratin of cardoons. A rotisserie burnishes chicken for two, lobsters, côte de boeuf and whole turbot. An apple tart to share headlines the desserts.On the bottom of the menu, after the required warning about consuming raw or undercooked ingredients, is a tongue-in-cheek coda: “It could also be dangerous crossing the street with a baguette under your arm without looking at the incoming traffic.”Frenchette, 241 West Broadway (North Moore Street), no phone.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS