AdvertisementAdvertisement

      By THE NEW YORK TIMES

UPDATED December 20, 2017

Arguably, 2017 was the year of the multicooker. Anything Instant Pot was popular with readers of the Food section. In January, Melissa Clark tried one (that article is No. 2 on this list), and in the fall, she shared more recipes for it (No. 6). But two articles, published in mid-December, became late additions to the list, as they reported on inappropriate sexual behavior in the restaurant world. What follows is the most-read Food stories and columns in 2017, along with some of the most popular reader comments.In September, our dining critic crossed the Hudson River, and named Razza Pizza Artigianale in Jersey City home to the region’s best pizza, citing a sauce “which is less acidic and bitter than many, and about as sweet as possible without tasting sugary.” Local ingredients like a buffalo mozzarella made from Sussex County water buffaloes helped, too.Five of Daniel Boulud’s sommeliers held a dinner this year to counter enduring wine shibboleths. Among them? The proper temperature to serve wine and fixations on fine vintages. “I was drawn to this dinner because, as with anyone who writes or talks about wine regularly, I am intimately familiar with all sorts of widely held yet mistaken notions,” our wine critic said. “They are worth discussing, as these fallacies can be significant barriers to getting the most pleasure out of drinking wine.”Before she joined The New York Times Magazine as an Eat columnist, Ms. Nosrat was extolling the importance of proper seasoning in the Food section. This article, an excerpt from her book “Salt, Fat, Acid, Heat: Mastering the Elements of Good Cooking,” covered the three main kinds of salt and the nuances of salting.Recipes: Buttermilk-Marinated Roast Chicken | Caesar SaladFrom her small, idiosyncratic restaurant in Freedom, Me., Ms. French has found success and a cult following with her own approach: open, intimate and personal.Recipes: Halibut Niçoise | Chilled Golden Beet and Buttermilk SoupVegetarianism and veganism are on on the rise; and kale, the bacon of the clean-eating moment, is now routinely heaped on salad plates across the land. Products and ideas surrounding eating, health and wellness that seem like a 1970s flashback have gone mainstream.Recipe: Pan-Griddled Sweet Potatoes With Miso-Ginger SauceIn July, the ice cream brand joined the list of food companies that are grappling with trace amounts of glyphosate in their products. The herbicide is the main ingredient in the popular consumer pesticide Roundup, which is widely used in agriculture.After the chef Sean Brock went to rehab, he came back with a new mission: teaching people in the restaurant business how to ask for help. “Suffering is suffering,” Mr. Brock said. “It doesn’t matter if you are addicted to porn on the internet or you’re codependent or you’re addicted to gambling or if you’re addicted to ‘The Real Housewives of Atlanta.’ You’re suffering, and that’s what gets us into trouble.”Earlier this month the celebrity chef Mario Batali, one of the country’s most high-profile restaurateurs, announced he was  stepping away from the daily operations of his businesses and the daytime program he co-hosts on ABC, “The Chew,” amid allegations of sexual misconduct.When Jack Daniel’s faltered on its vow to honor Nearest Green, a slave distiller who taught Jack Daniel how to make whiskey, Fawn Weaver sprang into action. “It was jarring that arguably one of the most well-known brands in the world was created, in part, by a slave,” said Ms. Weaver, an African-American real estate investor and author.A multicooker is dinnertime convenience in stainless steel form — an appliance that combines an electric pressure cooker with a slow cooker, electric steamer and rice cooker — and for our Good Appetite columnist, there is no other single gadget that can make weeknight cooking easier.Recipes: Pressure Cooker Sticky Tamarind Baby Back Ribs | Pressure Cooker Coconut Curry Chicken | How to Use an Instant PotThis blueprint for cooking an entire Thanksgiving meal over the course of one day in an oven and on four burners above it proved to be very popular with readers.A technique that creates thin chocolate chip cookies, with crisp ripples that run to the edges, finds Instagram fame.Recipe: Giant Crinkled Chocolate Chip CookiesJulia Moskin and Kim Severson spent months interviewing former employees of Ken Friedman, the owner of the Spotted Pig, a West Village restaurant helmed by the chef April Bloomfield. The women said that Mr. Friedman had subjected them to unwanted sexual advances: groping them in public, demanding sex or making text requests for nude pictures or group sex. Within hours of the article’s publication, his company announced that Mr. Friedman had decided to take an indefinite leave of absence from the management of the restaurants.The electric pressure cooker is the kitchen gadget of the moment. In January, Melissa Clark looked at what it does (and doesn’t do) well.Recipes: Pressure Cooker Chocolate Pudding | Pressure Cooker Spicy Pork Shoulder | Pressure Cooker Beef Short Ribs With Red Wine and Chile | Pressure Cooker Pork Salad With Pomelo and Garlic Chips | More Pressure Cooker RecipesJulia Moskin, Melissa Clark and Sam Sifton reviewed all-beef hot dogs this summer. Here are their findings.Produced by Sara BonisteelAdvertisement