AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Lizz SchumerWe’ve all felt that sinking feeling. You open a menu and the prices better match a new car than a plate of comestibles.For those of us pinching our pennies, dining out can seem like an impossible luxury, but it doesn’t have to be. We consulted financial and food experts alike for how they satisfy their budgets and their appetites.When Christina Izzo, a features editor for “Rachael Ray Every Day” wants a high-quality meal at a lower price, she goes for lunch, not dinner. “Aside from lunch prix fixes commonly being leagues cheaper than set dinner menus, a lot of restaurants have overlap between their lunch and dinner menus,” she explained. It’s a good opportunity to try a restaurant’s signature dish, just for a fraction of the price and perhaps with a drink or side included.Bar menus often work the same way, especially at fine dining establishments. Lucas Peterson, The New York Times’s Frugal Traveler, relies on lunch and bar-side dining for fine fare on a fast food budget. “I always recommend sitting at the bar at fancy places — they frequently have a cheaper menu with food that’s just as good,” he said.Pete Wells, The New York Times’s restaurant critic also recommended ordering just one plate at a time, which goes over better in the more casual barroom. “Even restaurants with a strong expectation that everybody will order a full meal tend to be more lenient at the bar, where nobody will raise an eyebrow if you eat a steak, pay and leave,” he advised.Mr. Wells also recommended getting a to-go box for your entree. Don’t wait until you can’t stomach your after-dinner mint: You will enjoy your meal more if you stop at satiation. Holly Johnson, founder of Club Thrifty, said knowing your limits goes a long way.“We frequently have our kids share a kids meal at sit-down restaurants,” Mrs. Johnson said, noting she and her husband often share, too. Non-leftover lovers should only order as much as they can eat. “Very often, that means sharing a few appetizers or an entree and noshing on some free bread,” she explained. Not every restaurant allows split entrees, but many do offer half-sized entrees, instead.To round out a meal, Mr. Wells never ignores the soup, which he calls “one of the best values on the menu. It’s one of those things that people always think they could make at home, but in reality, the average busy home cook rarely has time to make soup the way restaurants do,” he said.Those of us who just can’t resist trying a few dishes are best off ordering family style. Rachel Richards, author of “Money Honey,” recommends bringing some friends and following that strategy to make the most of any menu.“That way, everyone can try a little bit of everything, and your money goes even farther,” she said. Ms. Richards also suggests asking the waiter for recommendations, so you don’t miss any gems.Food and budget experts alike also recommend staying away from alcohol. Partially to keep the bill lower, but also to avoid pricey markups. “Don’t drink. I’m serious about this,” Mr. Wells said. “Not even one drink, because the first drink makes the second one almost inevitable.” If you really crave an adult beverage, he has a hack for that, too. “If you can only get through this by rewarding yourself, then pick out a bottle on the wine list and buy it at retail later on. Pocket the savings.”Going vegetarian also saves money while opening up a whole new world of creatively prepared meals. “Produce is simply less expensive than proteins, so if you cut out the meat, you’ll cut down the cost,” Ms. Izzo noted.Before you even sit down, decide how to pay. Lisa Rowan, a savings expert at The Penny Hoarder, explained that splitting the bill works best if everyone’s meals are priced within $5. “Quickly checking in when you sit down to eat, to confirm whether you’ll get separate checks, split the bill evenly or use some other method of paying the tab can alleviate stress at the end of the meal,” she said.When dining out with friends, Ms. Richards emphasized the importance of allowing for a little cushion. “Be conservative with your estimates in the first place,” she said. “Remember, you aren’t just paying for a $20 entree. What if the group wants to split appetizers? What if you decide to have a drink? What about tax and the tip?” Build all of that in from go, and add on another 10 percent, just in case. “The more time you spend preparing your budget for these types of events, the less likely you’ll avoid sticker shock.”With Yelp, TripAdvisor and social media, it’s never been easier to check the menu ahead of time. Shop for a restaurant like you would an apartment. Especially in major cities, location provides valuable clues. “Every time you sit at a restaurant table, you’re paying rent,” Mr. Wells said. “Generally speaking, you’ll get a better value when you eat in a neighborhood with lower rents.”Checking out menu prices ahead of time also prevents your stomach from deciding for you. Erin Lowry, author of “Broke Millennial: Stop Scraping By and Get Your Financial Life Together,” always checks Yelp for photos of menus, even if the restaurant does not list prices on its own website.Mrs. Johnson noted that planning ahead is even more essential when traveling. “If you don’t do any research ahead of time, it’s too easy to get hungry and wind up walking into the closest place you find,” she said.When you do check menus, remember they’re not always 100 percent accurate. “Don’t go into the meal assuming you’ll just have the chicken because it’s the cheapest,” Ms. Rowan said. “Instead, make sure you’re comfortable with the price range for most of the items on the menu before agreeing to visit.”With the rise of food trucks and global cuisine, it pays to get creative. Ms. Lowry pointed out the importance of thinking off the beaten path. “There are plenty of affordable options and the rise of food trucks and delivery services have certainly helped bring variety on a budget,” she noted.Ms. Rowan also emphasized the value of looking beyond white tablecloths for good eats. “Dive bars, diners and food trucks can surprise your taste buds without ruining your budget. Elsewhere, a happy hour special or weekly half-price burger night may be your ticket to trying new dishes,” she said.It’s important to make room in your budget to occasionally treat yourself, but never do so at someone else’s expense. Mrs. Johnson emphasized the importance of tipping, no matter what your budget. “I believe it’s really important to save money on dining out,” she acknowledged but she—and we—both advise against trying to save on eating out by skimping on the tip. It just hurts the people involved who make the least, or who may not even receive a living wage.Lizz Schumer is a freelance journalist and author of “Buffalo Steel.” Follow her on Twitter: @eschumer.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS