AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byInspired by the Olympics? People of all skill levels can get into winter sports like figure skating, bobsledding and, yes, even curling. Here’s how.By Talya MinsbergThere’s a familiar refrain heard in living rooms around the world during the Olympic Games: “I could do that.” Eye rolls usually follow. But if you are watching the Games and wondering if you can follow in the footsteps of those athletes, here’s a way to get started.First, you’ll have to check your ego at the door. You most likely will not be able to nail a chicken salad grab (yes, that’s really what it’s called) on the halfpipe or do a double full twist as an aerial ski jumper. With a humble approach, you can start chasing down your own Olympic, or recreational, dreams. The U.S. Luge team runs “slider searches” introducing children ages 9 to 13 to the sport. Participants are taught the basics of using a sled and then take several runs down a paved luge course on a sled with wheels. The young athletes that show the most potential are invited to try luge on ice at a training site. Don’t quite fit into that age demographic? There are luge tracks and clinics open to all ages.Michigan is home to two clubs and tracks for lugeing enthusiasts. The Upper Peninsula Luge Club has a natural track and the Muskegon Winter Sports Complex has a track built like the ones you see in the Olympics. Mere mortals can attempt a run at both sites. There are also courses in Utah and New York. But don’t expect to go too fast, or be able to progress too quickly. At the highest level, athletes move at 85 miles per hour. It takes a lot of training to get to that speed and precision safely. Want the exhilaration of a sliding sport without any of the training or danger? That’s an option too. Many sliding centers offer visitors the opportunity to ride in a bobsled with a pilot. But the jolting ride will cost you — the Whistler Sliding Centre in British Columbia charges $179 per rider. The Lake Placid bobsled experience goes for $95, which includes a team shirt and 20 percent off your second bobsled ride. If you want to take up the sport beyond a ride, Utah Olympic Park has a bobsled driving school. And U.S. Bobsled and Skeleton is always looking for new athletes: The federation hosts combines for prospective athletes. Adrenaline junkies rejoice. The back-to-back figure skating gold medalist Yuzuru Hanyu makes it look easy. Don’t be fooled — the ice rink can bring you to your knees, quite literally. Most people need to use something like a walker when they first try ice skating. Many ice rinks around the United States offer lessons and courses for a range of aspiring athletes. In New York City, Chelsea Piers offers year round classes for skaters ranging from 3-year-olds to adults. Many local parks and community centers around the country offer ice skating too, with a sliding scale of admission and rental charges. Even better? Skating on frozen lakes and ponds. But don’t forget — without a Zamboni, it may be a bumpier ride. Halfpipe snowboarding, slopestyle skiing and aerials have all gained notoriety as some of the flashier sports at the Games, but no one is born able to do those brilliant flying acrobatics. Before even thinking of attempting a run at an X-Games sport, you should be comfortable with your winter gear. Wirecutter, The New York Times’s product review site, has a rundown of the best apparel and accessories for enjoying the snow. Next, you’ll need skis or a snowboard, preferably something designed for beginners. That gear may shift as you progress in the sport, but moving from learning how to snowboard to attempting the halfpipe is a long road. Some camps and clinics exist to help would-be winter athletes make the transition from laid-back skiers who can take lessons at any ski resort to athletes who want to strive for time, style and better performance. In Canada, the North Toronto Ski Club has specialized clinics, including halfpipe, slopestyle and moguls. Okemo Mountain in Vermont has programs specifically for freestyle snowboarding and skiing. Looking as graceful as the world’s best speedskaters takes time. But if you are an experienced in-line skater, you already have a head start. Erin Jackson, a United States Olympian, transitioned from in-line skating to speedskating just months before qualifying for the Pyeongchang Games. Ms. Jackson trained in Florida, home of a vibrant speedskating community (you read that correctly). But there are clubs across the United States and Canada, many of which host classes and clinics. One of the premier speedskating rinks in the country is the Pettit Center in Milwaukee, home of the U.S. Olympic trials in January. The center has a speedskating school divided by age and ability. Want to slow down a bit? Try curling. The sport is growing across the United States as more venues start offering classes and starting leagues. There are curling leagues across the country, with vibrant clubs everywhere from Tampa, Fla., to St. Paul, Minn. The biggest leagues are concentrated in the Midwest. The Duluth Curling Club of Northern Minnesota encourages new members and offers free lessons. The Milwaukee Curling Club in Wisconsin also offers curling lessons, but most of the dates stretching a month in advance are already sold out. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS